General George Beverly, United States Air Force,
retired. Today is Thursday, July 16, 1981. This is
Terry Anderson in Del Rio, Texas. This is a test.
Today's interview is with Brigadier General
George Beverly. It is July 16, 1981. This is Terry
Henderson. You were born? Amarillo, Texas. Back
in May 27, 1897. Okay.
Let's start by talking about your grandfather and
your parents. Tell me about your family. Well,
family history goes way back into England, but my
grandfather moved
from Henderson, Kentucky to Goliad, near Goliad,
Texas by ox cart in 1853. Brought along all his
household goods and his slaves acquired two
plantations near Goliad, Texas, and he prospered
very well there until the Civil War, which time he
lost his slaves and the family had a little
difficulty adjusting, of course, and moved up to
San Antonio to put the children in school. And my
older brother, I mean his oldest son, my father,
had to go to work to help the family out when he was
about 12 years old. So he didn't get a great deal of
schooling. But he became a trail driver when
he was about 17. He went up the trail the first time
in 1871 with the herd and then he went up. Where were
they driving the herds? To Kansas at that time. I
believe they were going into Abilene and the last
herd he took up was several years later about I
would guess 1877. He was trail boss at that time.
about 23 years old, which speaks pretty well for
his ability. Sure. I expect to have about 4,000
head of cattle. Did he ever tell you about those
conditions? Well yes, he talked about, he didn't
talk much about it. He said they were stopped by
Indians in Indian territory and They would not
give the Indians a beef or a steer because that
would denote to the Indians that they were worried
and maybe afraid of them. They made the Indians
trade blankets for any steers that they gave them.
But otherwise they had no trouble with the
Indians.
On his last trip, on the way back, he and his cowboys
ran into a bunch of about nine buffalo and they shot
some of them and roped some of them and I think they
wiped out the whole nine head.
What trail? Yeah, I think it was the Chisholm
Trail, and my grandfather moved to Dodge City with
the family in 18, about 1880,
or 1870 sometime, and We went into partnership
with Bob Wright, who was mayor of Dodge City and we
opened a mercantile store called Wright and
Beverly and did a flourishing business with the
Texas Trail Drivers there for several years.
That's where my father met my mother. She lived in
Cairo, Illinois and came out to Dodge City to visit
some of her relatives during the summer and that's
where they had met her. Your grandfather met her?
That my father met her. Oh, okay. Okay. My mother,
they were married in 1992, moved to Amarillo,
Texas. That's where I was born. And why'd they
move? Well I don't know. He was looking for a job I
guess and he got a job as manager of the row ranch,
R-O-W-E, row ranch at several thousands of acres
north of Clarendon and I don't know how many
thousand head of cattle they had but it was quite
one of the largest ranches in the Panhandle. He got
the job as manager of that, but he moved the family
to Amarillo and bought a home there. And that's
where I was born and my older brother and one of my
younger brothers.
How many children in the family? There were five of
us. My father's family, there were eight. He had
seven brothers and sisters.
Our family, I had three brothers and one sister.
How'd you get along with them when you were growing
up? Oh, I didn't get along too well with my older
brother, but he was bossy. And I knocked the front
tooth out for him one time when he had me down on the
road. And I just reached back and got a rock and
knocked the front tooth out. And he had to have it
replaced. It cost him about $10, $15 at that time.
But I got along fine with my younger brother. He was
a year and a half younger than I am. And then my
sister was born. Carlsbad, New Mexico, where
after the family had moved from Amarillo to
Carlsbad. Why'd they move down there? They moved
down there on account of my mother's health. She
had tuberculosis and she thought it would be
better in climate for her down there and he did too.
So he went to, the whole family moved to Carlsbad in
1902 and Dad got the job down there as manager of the
Turkey Truck Ranch, which was a large ranch
between Carlsbad and Roswell, New Mexico. I don't
know if it's still in existence or not, but it was
quite a large ranch. While he was manager of that
ranch, he had some trouble with a couple of cowboys
and he fired and they threatened to kill him. So he
rode into Roswell and bought himself a .45 single
action, and he had to wear that while those boys
were in their vicinity, those young, two young men
that he fired, but they never did go through with
their threat to killing. Then in 1906, my Uncle Jim
and my father bought a ranch and 12 miles west of
Channing, Texas, which is close to Dalhart there,
between Amarillo and Dalhart. And it was 12 miles
south of Dalhart and 12 miles west of Channing in
the Rita Blanca Canyon. It's called the Old
Marshall Place. and it was right next door to the
XIT main headquarters. Why'd they decide to move
back to Texas? How was your mother's health at that
time? Dad just wanted to get back to Pan Am, I guess,
in the ranching business. Well, they followed
along,
but while from 1906 to 1910,
mother stayed at Carlsbad and my younger brother
Henry and I and the first year in 1906 we went by
train up to Channing and stayed on the ranch that
summer
and my older brother James and mother stayed in
Carlsbad where she gave birth to my only sister
Beatrice Then in 1907, 8 and 9, why the whole family
went up to Willis Springs Ranch for the summer and
went back to Carlsbad for the winter school term.
Then in 1910, why he moved the whole family up to
Dalhart, Texas. That's where I went to high
school.
Could you tell me about the type of man your father
was? Well, he always said that his word was as good
as his bond. He was strictly honest and never tried
to beat anybody out of anything. He was not too
smart as a businessman or money wise. We never had
much money. We had enough to eat, and from the time I
was eight or 10, I was out helping with the family
finances by selling Saturday evening posts and
anything else I could, job I could get. And I
took stenography,
in high school and earned money typing for the
county clerk and typing up leads at that time and
worked for various businessmen there, an
abstract company,
Ballard Abstract Company.
I saved my money and after I graduated from high
school at Ballard, I went to Texas A&M for two years
I paid all my own expenses. Did you tell me a little
bit about your mother? What type of person she was?
Well, mother was a very beautiful woman. She was
handicapped by the fact that she had a rude, hungry
children to feed and didn't have much money. But
she used to buy cornflakes, for instance, by the
crate. feed us on skim milk. We couldn't afford
fresh milk, whole milk. So the dairyman would sell
us a gallon of skim milk for 10 cents and
occasionally if he had extra whole milk why he'd
just pour in the whole milk instead of the skim milk
and that was a real treat for us but that's about
that gives you some idea of the struggles she had in
paying the bills. She played, well at Carlsbad she
played the organ for the Episcopal Church and made
some money that way. And at Dalhart she was one time
telephone operator up there in the switchboard
room with the hardware store at Dalhart. Was she a
hard working woman? Well, oh yeah,
she was a hard worker.
She was a very fine bridge player. She belonged to
the bridge club there in Dalhart and was probably
the best bridge player in Dalhart. She was a pretty
good piano player. She tried to teach me how to play
the piano. but she just didn't have the nervous
energy to force me to practice. I'd rather be out on
the sandlot playing football with the boys and
sitting in there practicing piano, so I never did
learn to play. I did learn to play the cornet,
played in the dial art. Dan played second coronet,
I think. Who was the authority in the family, your
mother or your father? Mother. Dad was
somebody on the ranch. Whenever us boys got out of
hand to where mother couldn't handle us, she'd get
dad to come in and he'd Of course, he'd give us a
licking that would last at least a year. He had a
piece of leather trace, I don't know if you know
what they are. It runs from the horse's collar back
to the single tree or double tree. He had a piece of
it about that thick, about that long. About 18
inches long and about an inch thick? Oh no, he's
about half an inch thick.
Anyway, it was terrific licking he'd give each one
of us and that would do us for a year at least. Mother
had a rawhide riding crop that she applied to
proper places whenever she got so exasperated she
couldn't stand it any longer, but on the whole I
guess we were an average kid. No meaner than the
average. We were... You mentioned the Episcopal
Church. Was religion important in your
upbringing? Uh, yes. My mother sent us to Sunday
school, and we Presbyterians way back in 400
years. in Scotland,
and we also were, went to the young man, people's,
Epworth League, I believe they call it, something
like that, the Presbyterian Church,
and we went evening service sometime. I'm not too,
I don't remember too much about that except that I
do remember I joined the church when I was I guess
about 16 or 17
by confession of faith. We were all baptized when
we were babies. Later on when I quit the
Presbyterian on account of the National Council
of Churches I went to a Christian church, the North
American Christian Convention, but that was
later. But I had to be dumped, I had to be baptized
again, immersed.
Getting back to Texas A&M. Well, before we move to
Texas A&M, I want to ask you another question about
your parents. You had a very successful career
rising to the rank of general, and I was wondering
in what ways do you think your parents were
responsible for that? Well, I think that both my
father and my mother instilled an idea of
integrity. and that we wouldn't lie. We, in some
cases, did occasionally lie, but that was drilled
into us to be truthful and honest and have respect
for authority.
That's about all I can think of at this time that
they instilled into us. Okay, now let's go to your
education, but before we get to A&M, let's talk a
little bit about your high school. What were your
favorite subjects?
Well, I was smarter than the average student. I
don't say that egotistically, but I didn't have
enough to keep me interested, to keep up with the
class. I didn't try to excel because I'd rather be
out playing baseball or football or something or
maybe dreaming, daydreaming, but I breezed
through the courses with no trouble at all. I took
up shorthand and typewriting so I could make extra
money It took a year of German. I liked my German
teacher and I enjoyed that course. I enjoyed
ancient history and
I liked mathematics. Would you consider yourself
a good student in high school? I would consider
myself a non-problems student. The teachers had
no trouble with me. I had no trouble keeping up.
Were you involved with a lot of activities and
sports? Uh, Dalhart at that time had about 3,000
people. Our high school teams were I played
football with a team for instance. We went down to
Amarillo one time to play Amarillo and they beat us
127 to nothing. Isn't that amazing? I got kicked
behind the ear. 127 to nothing? I got kicked behind
the ear, and I don't remember playing most of the
game, but I have a hazy recollection of seeing
them, they put their ends way out on the sideline,
you know, and then it snapped the ball. It would go
this end down to the, and the ball would go through
there, and he'd pick it out and try to cross the goal
line for a score. And we were just helpless. We were
like a bunch of babes in their hands. At that time, I
guess they were about as good as any team in Texas,
but in baseball, I was a pretty good high school
player. I played on the Dallard Municipal Team as a
catcher in baseball. As I said, I played in a band
and that's about the extent of my activities
there. Did you consider your work, did you lead,
did you consider yourself a leader at that time?
Yes in high school, yeah. Well in grammar school
too. I was always taking up for mistreated kids,
some bullies, there's always bullies you know,
and I was a good fighter and I was always protecting
the kids who were The bullies were picking on me,
and these bullies were afraid of me. Why do you
think you'd be the one who would stand up for these
kids? I think it's just the nature that I was born in
with. I just hate injustice forcing anything on
Eric. Of course, that comes under injustice to
those kids. Anything in this world I hate, it's
injustice. non-justice.
And so you consider yourself, you see that you
started your leadership, your long career of
leadership way back when you were a teenager. In
the first grade, I started it back in the first
grade at La Huerta, New Mexico which is suburb of
Carlsbad, New Mexico. We had a one-room
schoolhouse there and about 20 students from that
area and I think one teacher and their grades over
there from the first grade on up to about the
seventh and one thing these older boys decided
that they're going to find out which one of the the
first and second graders were the best fighters so
they cleaned out a pig pen there and this this was a
private home they cleaned out this pig pen and then
they put two of us in there and we'd fight it make us
fight so go over go to it and whoever won why he was in
there against the next one and I wound up the winner
against all the kids by anywhere near my age Then I
had the first and second grade. Then I went into
Carlsbad to school. Now were these boxing and
kicking matches or were they more wrestling or
were you just hitting and elbowing? Oh, it was just
fist cuffs. When I went into Carlsbad to enter the
third grade they gave me a test made me skip the
third grade and put me in the fourth grade with the
champion fighter there at Carlsbad I heard about
me being the best fighter from the Werda area so he
kept pestering me to fight it out see who was the
best fighter and he was about that much taller than
I was and I dodged him as long as I could but he
finally got me cornered in an alley one time and
proceeded to beat me up pretty good. I finally just
quit. But he was too much for me. He later became an
amateur champion in New Mexico,
I think. But I enjoyed fighting. I enjoyed
anything physical.
Now let's go back to A&M. Why did you decide to go to
Hampton? I had the reputation down heart of being
the toughest school in Texas. The reputation of
making it tough on anybody that would want to try to
get in there. Tough on the freshmen. And I decided
I'd like to go down and try it out. I got down there
and they Did you ever think of any other
alternative schools? No, I can't think of any. You
never considered going some other place? No. Were
you interested in the military at this time? No. So
you never thought of going to West Point? No. As a
matter of fact, I wasn't much interested in
further education, I recall. I guess mother
probably told me I should get a college education,
so I always obeyed her. What did you think when you
arrived? Well, I was a green country boy down there
among all those kids from the cities and so forth. I
was on my toes. I said, what course? I thought you'd
go to college, or you'd take just whatever they
gave you, you know, the whole business, just like
you would in high school. You don't go to high
school now, but at that time, I took everything I
had in high school, and I thought I'd take
everything I had in A&M. I said, well, someone
asked me what course I was going to take, and I said,
well, I don't know. What have they got? Somebody
said, well Animal Husbandry is supposed to be the
easiest course. I said, well I believe I'll take
that. I didn't know what it was.
You didn't know what Animal Husbandry was? No. I
found out later it was out of form.
So I took Animal Husbandry and I immediately tried
to get in the band as a cornet player. So I had the
tryouts there in old Pfeiffer Hall. I got torn down
years and years ago. I was playing, the bandmaster
was a master sergeant at that time, retired master
sergeant, big fat guy. He was trying out cornet
players among the freshmen. And I couldn't read
music even. But I could memorize a tune, so. He had
these freshmen come in and play the same tune, you
know, and he'd either reject them or keep them. It
finally came my turn. I knew the tune by heart, so I
went in and rattled it off, and it's cornet, so I was
accepted. You were accepted to the band. Yeah,
couldn't read the music. That's pretty good. Now,
before you came to A&M, You had, in other words, you
had no idea whatsoever what you wanted to be, I mean
as far as a profession was concerned? I can't, I
can't recall any. One time I thought I'd like to be a
doctor, that's about all I remember. So you didn't
really have any firm goals or anything? I didn't
have anything in mind when I went down there,
except to get away from Dial Art and get some more
education, that's all.
Okay, so then
you went down there, what year did you go down
there, was it 1917? 1915. 1915, that's right,
1915.
At this time had you formed, or during your time at
A&M, had you formed any ideas about politics? I
mean, had you given any thought to political
parties, or? Well, my dad was, died in the World
Democrat. He lived through the Civil War, and so
the slaves freed, and the family impoverished,
and he was- You mean your grandfather? No, my
father. My father was born in 1854. See, he was 12
years old when the Civil War was over. I thought
you said that your grandfather built up in Dodge
City. Yeah, my grandfather moved from Goliad, or
Floresville I believe at that time, up to Dodge
City. and took my father and the other children,
you see. Some of the other children.
So your father was a Democrat? Yeah, he always said
I'd vote. He hated Yankees and he hated
Republicans, and he said, I'd vote for a yellow dog
on a Democratic ticket before I'd vote for a black
Republican. Well, of course that influenced the
kids.
Later on, when my older brother was appointed
governor of Puerto Rico by Republican Hoover, Dad
said, I just can't believe you're a Republican at
heart.
And what political philosophy do you interpret
here, too? And now, I'm a Republican. My wife
signed up as a Democrat and I signed up as a
Republican, but I'm actually an independent. I
vote for the man, I don't vote for the party. Do you
consider yourself a liberal or a moderate or a
conservative? I consider myself conservative.
I was drawn to Reagan. Reagan and I worked pretty
hard for Goldwater in 1964. I was on the committee
at Clearwater, Florida working for him. And I
contributed money to conservative causes until
I'm inundated with letters.
I even get telephone calls from the NCAPAC,
National Conservative Political Action
Committee, Conservative Caucus, and a dozen
others, and I've got this big filing cabinet here.
That's where most of it goes, but I have
contributed several hundred dollars towards
Republicans in the last two years. Okay, now let's
go back to the A&M. Okay. And the military then, did
that have, the fact that it was a corps
institution, did that have any impact on you for
going to A&M? No. I had no idea I'd ever be in the
Army.
When we got in the war, I came home to help Dad on the
ranch. Before the war, let's talk about what corps
or unit were you in? I was in the band. I lived in
Pfeiffer Hall. What did you think about, I mean did
you work while you were in them? Did you have any
opportunity to? Yes, I had to work in order to pay
for my uniforms and food and so forth. I worked as a
janitor. I was the janitor in Mitchell Hall for I
think about two or three days and then the man in
charge called me in and put me in charge of the whole
building and I had about six or seven other
students under me
do the janitorial work on that building. I did
stenographic work for the secretary of the YMCA
I
can't think of any other work I did. Were you
employed most of the time when you were there?
Yeah, all the time. Do you remember how much they
paid you? Do you remember what the wages were back
then? I got two dollars a month first year for
playing in the band and they raised it to three
dollars. That was fifty percent increase. Three
dollars a month the second year I was there. The
janitor work seemed to me like I made about $20 a
month, but I wouldn't swear to that. Working for
the secretary doing his typing and stenographic
work, I can't remember what I was getting. What did
you think of the accommodations? Oh, that was
okay. After all, it was the oldest hall there, I
think. Yeah, I had one big shower in the building
and three of us had a room built for two and things
like that, but it didn't bother us. Were they
camping out on that? Were they in tents out there on
the drill field? No, none of us were in tents. We
were all hours in the building. How about the food?
The food was good compared to what I was used to.
I got fat on it.
What core outfit? Oh, you were in the band. Were you
in another outfit too? No, no. The band, while the
rest were, while the core was drilling, the band
was practicing music. Did you ever learn to read
music? Not much, no. Still can't.
And make good bandmasters sorry every... What's
that, lemonade, honey? Yes, it's lemonade. I'll
give you something stronger later on. You're
talking to who's normally a very quiet man. I
thought I'd better give you something.
I did. I sure enjoyed being in the band because I got
to travel around with the football team. See
places that I'd heard about from other students,
but never been around. I'd never been around much
at that time.
I didn't play. I played intramural baseball. I
wasn't good enough to be on varsity. What about the
hazing? Can you tell me about the hazing? Well, I
avoided that quite a bit. They didn't pick on me,
maybe because I was little. I just kept my mouth
shut and tried to be a good fish.
I'd see my roommate one time had his fanny massive
bruises from being off with a broomstick. I
thought that was awful. Did you think that hazing
served any purpose? No, none whatever I think of
this.
There's no place there at all, no good purpose that
I could see.
Some of those kids, well I know one kid that went
crazy. Tied him to a railroad track. There's a
double track, you see, and the train was coming
down the main track. They tied him to the railroad?
They blindfolded him, tied him to the track where
the train was not coming, you see. But he thought
the train was coming around on him. He went nuts. He
did really? Did they have to send him home? I don't
know what happened to him. But he dropped out of
A&M? There was quite a stink about it, I know, at
A&M, but he never seemed to be able to stop the
hazing there.
I thought that was hazing was out of place
in the university. They didn't do it over at Texas
University where my older brother went. One of my
younger brothers
went. There were four of us going and two of us went
to A&M and two to Texas. There was no hazing value of
that over in Texas.
Did you like or dislike being in the Corps? I liked
my two years there. What did you like about being in
the Corps of Cadets? I got good fellowship, made
some good friends. I got away from that stinging
place, Dalhart. I didn't like Dalhart. I got to see
a lot of places in Texas I'd never had, never seen,
but had heard about.
Had good food. I had one or two instructors that I
was very fond of, especially the English
instructor. Okay, who were they? Boy, I couldn't
call them any now. I just remember that He taught me
how to write a composition.
I learned a lot from him. The mathematics I liked
until I got into trigonometry.
There's unknown equations in trigonometry that
remain unknown to me. From then on, I never could
figure out those things, but I could. In the final
examination, there were 10 questions. You had to
make 70 to pass it. Three of them were unknown
equations. The three I missed, I made my 70. I got
the other seven right, so I got through all that.
Oh, I liked the...
cutting up the cattle and horses and things like
that, what do you call it? Animal husbandry? Yeah.
Dissecting? Yeah, dissecting animals. That was
part of animal husbandry. So you liked the
curriculum in animal husbandry then? Yeah. I
liked it. I was glad I chose that course because I
don't think I would have been a good engineer.
I don't have a mathematical mind exactly.
Did you dislike anything about being in the Corps?
Only the hazing.
I liked the drills. I liked the dress parades. I
liked the Yale practice, going to football games.
The only thing I disliked was hazing. Were you ever
in any position of leadership when you
were at A&M? made a sergeant in the band for the
third year, but I didn't go back. I was notified
that I'd been chosen to be sergeant, but I didn't go
back the third year. I got into the Army. When you
think back on your career and becoming a general,
what ways do you think that going to A&M helped you,
and what ways do you think it hurt you?
I don't think it had any effect. You don't think A&M
had any effect? I can't remember thinking of any
effect that my two years at A&M had on it. If I didn't
drill, I didn't drill enough to know how to get from
here to there, but I went in the aviation section of
the Signal Corps in the Army and I can't
say that A&M had any effect either way, except it
taught me how to study, since I had to go to ground
school for eight weeks before I started flying. It
taught me how to study.
taught me to obey orders. Discipline, I think I got
very good discipline at A&M. The band was
disciplined just the same as the rest of the corps.
So it seems then that it did have some effect. Yeah.
So now you're saying that it did have some effect.
Yeah, yeah. It had a good effect in that way. It
taught me discipline and how to study
them. Do you think it had any effect on the fact that
you became a leader? Yes,
because I watched what the other leaders did at A&M
and I became well enough like we made a sergeant,
which is about as high as you can get as a junior,
but I've always been a leader among the kids, but
except at A&M, I can't remember having any
followers there. I had some very fine friends, but
I can't remember any leadership that I did there.
Were there any professional soldiers at A&M that
had an effect on you? They taught me discipline.
There was Colonel Muller, M-U-L-L-E-R.
Lieutenant.
Later became Major General. I can't think of
anyone. That's my name and some retired sergeants
who worked there. I've
been disciplined ever since I was a kid and my
parents disciplined me. So I've learned to be a
follower and obey orders. That's what you have to
learn first before you can be a leader.